Jamie Christoper Webber is a composer, interactive audio programmer and multidisciplinary artist currently living in Montreal, Quebec. 


ARTISTIC STATEMENT

His work explores the relationships between art and science, between the analog and the digital, the intuitive and the rational, or, to put it another way, the interactions between the magical and the mechanical, on both very personal and societal levels. Much of his thinking can be summed up and loosely mapped to the <i>dual process theory of cognition</i>, but having a theory is itself only half of the picture and these beliefs need to be embodied, transcended, expressed holistically, metaphorically, artistically, at the same time as being engaged with and discussed on scientific and philosophical levels. 

In a single quote, perhaps misappropriated and taken way out of its original context to be applied to the relationship between Science and Art, Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said: "Power without Love is reckless and abusive, Love without Power is sentimental and anemic. Love at its best is Power implementing the demands of Justice, and Justice at its best is Power correcting everything that stands against Love." One of Webber's current projects is a series of online essays called Solipsism and Lunacy that explore these ideas much further.


EARLY YEARS THROUGH CEGEP

Jamie showed interest in music early on, beginning piano and flute lessons as a young child. For high school he attended the Académie de Musique de Massey-Vanier in Cowansville, Quebec where he played baritone saxophone, as well as taking up acoustic guitar, singing folk music and indie rock. He attended CEGEP Vanier College in Montreal where he completed two college degrees in Pure and Applied Science and Music, studying flute performance with Heather Howes. He could never for the life of him play in tune, though. Here he also had his first exposure to contemporary classical music, studying composition with Keith Tedman and Robert Jones. He was the geeky kid who received a theremin for his 16th birthday!



Jamie also has extensive experience with social justice work. Beginning in his teen years he became invovled with the United Church of Canada as a youth delegate and eventually summer camp director from () to (). He helped to organize youth forum events


Travelled to Africa

Milennium Scholarhip





UNIVERSITY YEARS




Jamie attended McGill University, where over 5 years he completed two Bachelors Degrees in Neuroscience and Music Composition (again with the binary). It was at this time that he became enamoured with the music of Quebecois composer Claude Vivier () and began seriously exploring composing microtonal music, as well as contemporary improvisation, Musique Actuelle and Free Jazz. He studied Composition with John Rea, but this was a very difficult relationship and ironically he received far more support for his artistry through the Department of Neuroscience than from the music faculty, receiving NSERC research grants to study auditory perception with Evan Balaban and the psychoacoustics of emotional responses to music orchestration with Stephen McAdams at the [] LAB LAB.

While in University he also began experimenting with computer programming and algorithmic composition, expanding Vivier's ideas about microtonal harmony into the space of timbre, following after McAdams' work on categorizing the sound textures of orchestral instruments. but again, following the 2012 student protests and the subsequent funding cuts to Education, the music department was fucking useless and he mainly remembers a series of failed performances from this era




It was through this work with the church that he became interested in CIRCLE CULTURE

 and also seeing the seeming incompatibility between what he was being taught in the Science and Music faculties that he became interested in the traditional beleif systems of the indigenous people of Canada and North America. 




Spirituality- Messiaen



Participated in Founding of LMCML




AFTER UNIVERSITY UP TO LE WAGON



Vipassana Mediation


After finishing his undergraduate degrees, wanting to see things for himself, he spent two years living in the Cree community of Mistissini and the Inuit community of Tasiujaq, 





LE WAGON TIL NOW





CURRENT PROJECTS










